STM32 I2C API
=============

Description
-----------

The STM32 I2C drivers provide a common application programming interface to initialize and use an I2C peripheral across various targets supported by the STM32 platform.

I2C platform specific initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The STM32 platform driver allows the user to configure the platform specific initialization parameters via the stm32_i2c_init_param structure. This is configured via the **extra** member of the no_os_i2c_init_param via the no-OS layer.

.. code:: C


   struct stm32_i2c_init_param {
       /** I2C Timing */
       uint32_t i2c_timing;
   };

The **i2c_timing** is calculated in the application layer. It is applicable for the STM32 MCU generics (Example- STM32H563ZI, STM32L552ZEQ etc.,) that support an I2C timing register. The **i2c_timing** member holds the value of the timing register, which allows the user to configure the I2C clock speed and duty ratio. The timing register is a combination of the values of :

1) Prescaler - PRESC[31:28]

2) Data setup time - SCLDEL[23:20]

3) Data hold time - SDADEL[19:16]

4) SCL high period - SCLH[15:8]

5) SCL Low period - SCLL[7:0]

The timing can also be determined from the autogenerated value calculated by STM32CubeMX.

Certain other group of MCU families (example- STM32F469NI, STM32L1, STM32F2 etc.,) do not contain a timing register. Such family of parts would use the :doc:`no_os_i2c_init_param </wiki-migration/resources/no-os/drivers/i2c>` to configure the frequency of the I2C clock via the **max_speed_hz** member.
